The Shahnama contains many stories telling of great heroes and warriors. In regard to this image,
we will be looking into one of the many adventures of a hero called Isfandiyar.
This is the royal Isfandiyar. He has been chosen to complete seven stages, each containing
great challenges within. These challenges include defeating ghastly enemies from wolves to witches, and in
this third stage, a fire breathing dragon. But we will get back to that.
Now, You may be wondering who these men in the background are.  Isfandiyar always has
an army of people alongside him, who come from many different trades. But the most important
of these men is a man called Gurgsar. Gurgsar is an enemy commander, who has
been captured by Isfandiyar and his people. He acts as a spiritual  guide throughout these
seven challenges and prepares Isfandiyar for what is to come in the future.
This story of the third stage begins with Isfandiyar pouring Gurgsar three goblets of the
finest of wines. The hero then asks his guide if he will see into the future,
and alert him of the challenge that which he must face the following day,
Gurgsar replies that no people are coming to harm him the following day,
but then promptly warns him that he will instead come across a great fire breathing dragon.
Isfandiyar reacts not with fear, but great confidence, sure that this dragon will not
escape his wrath alive.
In preparation for this battle, Isfandiyar calls upon some crafty carpenters within his army to
build him a wooden horse drawn carriage. This is no ordinary carriage, but one that is
booby trapped with spikes and swords to maim the dragon. He restlessly waits until the next
day when he is finally approached by the beast who emerges from its dark, ominous cave.
The dragon breathes fire and ferociously roars at Isfandiyar, who in return looks to god
in the sky and asks him for his help.
This is the point in the story in which the image you see is depicted.
We can see that Isfandiyar looks fearful, but is ready for battle with his shield up
and sword in hand. Not only is Isfandiyar fearful, but his army who appear to
be hiding in the background behind the rocks. Will Isfandiyar be a match for this
monster that is looming over him?
The dragon attacks and kills the horses. But in the process, the booby-trapped carriage
works its magic and the dragon ends up swallowing all of the spikes and swords.
They are stuck in its throat, and it begins to choke and bleed profusely.
Isfandiyar then takes this opportunity to make his move and hacks the dragons brain!
The dragon lets out a cry, and swoons away in painful defeat.
Isfandiyar, uninjured, but overcome by the venomous fumes of the dragon, is lying on the ground.
His army comes out from hiding behind the rock and all rush to his side.
Thinking he is mortally wounded, they begin to pour healing rose water all over his limp body.
But alas, Isfandiyar rises and says, ‘who could have slain that dragon if the world
lord had not assisted him?”
Once again Isfandiyar is victorious, and will now move along to face the next beast who may challenge  him.